whenever we are working with a larger
application we often have to generate
reports or simply export data to an
Excel file or a CSV for this we have
many packages in larval that we can use
one amazing package is larval XL in this
series I will teach you how you can use
lateral XL to export data and a little
bit about modifying the Excel sheets in
the end I will also show you how you can
read data from an Excel file which has
multiple sheets and how you can insert
that data into the database so let's get
started with the installation first I
have created a new level project and
added the database credentials the
version of variable is 10 which is the
latest at the moment and the PHP version
is 8.2
this code is also pushed to GitHub and
you can find the link in the description
below now in order to install the
laravel Excel package we have some
requirements one of them is to have
larval above 5.8 and PHP should be above
7.2 or 8 depending on the version of
lateral you are using other than this we
need to have a few PHP extensions
enabled for this you can go to your PHP
ini file and check whether these are
enabled or not with the requirements out
of the way we can run the composer
command to install the package for me
however I was running into some PHP
spreadsheet version error and that is
because some dependencies of the package
is missing so instead of running this
simple command of composer I will add an
argument with all dependencies so once
the package is installed the service
provider is automatically discovered as
mentioned in the documentation but it
didn't work for me and I had to do it
manually so let's add the provider and
the alias in the app.php so the package
has been installed and now we can run
vendor published command to have the
config file which includes all the
general configuration we want for this
package age let's run the command
and with this we can see there is a file
name xl.php in our projects config
folder the installation is now complete
now let's do some exports
