before moving towards exporting data I
would like to give you a demo of the
project which I will be using throughout
this tutorial series to generate reports
this is the database structure or ERD
generated using workbench where we will
be storing the data for different
restaurants the food they are selling
and Orders of different users with this
data we will be able to generate
different type of reports I've kept the
scope of this project very small but
enough for covering all the topics let's
quickly go through each of the migration
factories and a cedar to insert the data
and get started the first migration is
for the restaurant where I have basic
videos like the name email and address
of the restaurant
then we have the menu items table which
basically represent an item that is
offered by a restaurant next we have the
owners and orders item table where we
will be holding all the orders placed by
a user and all the items included in
that order and the total price that's
all for the migration and the next thing
I did was to add all these fillable
attributes and Define the relation
inside the model for each table inside
the factories I have just used fake data
using the PHP Faker package and finally
inside the database theater file I'm
calling these factories to insert the
data into the database the code has been
pushed to GitHub you can simply pull
from this commit and run the command PHP
Artisan migrate seed just make sure you
have set the database credential in your
environment file and this will create
all the tables and insert fake data in
demo once that is done it's time for
some exports