now we have the data in the database for
exporting reports if we go to the
lateral Excel documentation we can see a
quick style link let's follow this one
and Export our first Excel file
in order to export we need to First
create an export file which we can
generate using a command provided by
lateral Excel package
PHP artisan make export and the name of
the file in our case it is going to be
user export and then we can specify the
model if we are going to generate a
report based on a model
by specifying the model name we are just
adding the query to the export file
which will retrieve all the records for
the specified model once we run this
command we can see a new directory
inside our app folder name exports
inside we have our export file which
only has one method name collection
which retrieves all the records for the
user model
now we need to create an endpoint and
add a very simple logic to download an
Excel file so I will create the route
named users.export and I'm going to add
a closure here instead of the controller
because right now we have a very simple
logic later on we will move the logic to
its own controller so we will be using
Excel facade provided by the package and
we will call the download method which
takes in couple parameters the first one
is the export file instance which we
just created using the Artisan command
and the second one is the name of the
file with the extension
so we can specify the extension as Excel
file or a CSV now let's return this and
in the browser let's hit this endpoint
okay so the file is downloaded let's
open it
and now we can see all the users that
are in the Excel file and now we can see
all the users data in the Excel file
next let's see at few different ways of
exporting data and then we will get into
some customization of the Excel sheet