we just saw that with from view
interface we can include the header row
but with the other ways of exporting the
header row or headings or missing
first I'm going to clean the export file
and have the class Implement form array
interface because most of the time you
will either be working with array of
data or collections
also we need to revert the data to users
data instead of the orders and one more
thing I would like to do is to hide all
the timestamps in the model
so now in order to have headings roll we
need to implement another interface call
with headings
this interface has one method name
headings which we must Define and it
returns an array where each element of
the array is a heading for each of the
column in our Excel file
so let's define an array of headings and
give it a shot in the browser
in case we need more than one heading
row we can also do that for this we will
be returning arrays of array where each
internal array would be representing
each row so now let's define two
internal arrays which will be which
means that we will be defining two rows
of headings and then we will have our
data
as you can see that is working quite
nicely
one more thing that I would like to
share is that you might be wondering
that we are defining static headings and
what if we have multiple exports of same
model and it has quite a lot of columns
or attributes this is not something that
has to do anything with the package but
just an opinion on how you can reduce
the duplication of code
so in that case you can define a
constant array in your model where you
will map each attribute or database
column with a more user-friendly name
and then you can grab the keys of the
data inside the export class and then
return that custom field name
it is just an option on how you can do
it but I hope you get the idea on how
you can map each database column with a
better heading because we don't want to
have column headings with underscore or
special characters like we do in our
database talking about mapping one
problem that you might be thinking about
is that right now we are just getting
the data and then creating the headings
based off how the data is exported and
which column is first and which is last
let's now have a look on how we can map
columns the way we want which column
should be coming first and which should
be last