previously we were using fsat in order
to download an Excel file however level
Excel provide us another way of
downloading the files
so inside our export file we are going
to import our concern and here we are
also going to add use exportable
and now what we can do is we can remove
the facade from our controller
I will comment this one out and instead
we are going to return the instance of
our export
and now we have the method called
download
and we can call that method
and we can pass in multiple arguments
the first one is the simple one which is
the name of the file so let's add the
file name so we are calling the download
method and we are missing the argument
here users
so it will work the same way as before
the only difference is we now don't have
to include the X oversad in our
controller like I mentioned before this
download method accepts multiple
parameters or arguments the first one is
the file name the second one is about
the writer type so whatever type of file
we are trying to explore it can be CSV
XLS depends on the Excel file and the
third one is the array of headers where
we can specify the things like content
type now there is one more way of
shortening this type of download so
without using the X office app and for
that we have an interface which allows
us to Define these customization like
the file name the writer type and
headers inside of our export class so
for that let's go back to our export
file and inside our export file we can
implement the interface called
responsible
with this interface we can Define couple
of things so I'm going to copy from the
official documentation and we can Define
the file name writer type and headers
so the file name is going to be users
and we must Define file name in order to
use the responsible interface the other
properties are optional so let me
add Excel
and the content type let's keep that
and now we can go back to our controller
and instead of using the download method
we can simply return our instance of the
export file
and that was all about different ways of
exploring file now when we are working
with apis or even when we are not
working with the apis it doesn't have to
be AB specific we want to store the
Excel file somewhere it can be on our
own server or something like S3 storage
so for this we have two ways of storing
the file the first one is using the X
office ad so let's comment this one
and undo all the changes so we won't be
using the responsible interface and not
even the exportable concern and instead
of the download method we have a meta
name store
and we also need to import the Excel
facade
so it's going to be Excel slash facade
and now we can use the meta name store
and it also takes in multiple parameters
so the first one is the exportable file
so that is our user's export the second
one is the file path or the file name so
if we are just defining the file name
and we have not configured or modified
the default file system inside our file
systems.php it will be storing the file
using the local disk which by default
refers to the storage app folder
so these two are the required parameters
the rest are optional the third one is
about the disk so we can specify
whichever disk we want to use it can be
S3 Public Storage whichever we have
defined in our file system file and the
fourth one is about the writer type and
we can pass in some options as a 50
parameter so which can be like
visibility of the file or the content
type now let's try it out first so we'll
go back to our browser and slash export
and we can see one which means the file
has been successfully stored so we can
go to our file system and inside the
storage directory inside the app folder
we can see our users Excel file so now
the other way of storing the file is by
using exportable conserve so we can go
back to our export file and add the use
exportable and now we can go back to our
controller and instead of the download
method we have the store method and
which takes in the same program as the
facade method so we can just simply pass
in the name and let's try it in browser
hit refresh
and actually let's first delete this
file so we know that our method is
working
refresh go back and now we can see our
user Excel file
so that is about exporting and
downloading files now let's dive a
little bit deeper into customizations of
the sheets and having multiple sheet in
the Excel file