in this video let's work on customizing
our export columns for cells
let's first take a look at what is
exported currently
so inside this file ask yourself what is
the first thing that you see that isn't
looking fine
the column switch right we can see that
the columns are either overlapping or
the text inside them isn't showing
properly that is the first thing we
would like to fix or improve so for this
let's go to our export file
and here we are going to use an
interface that will Auto resize our
cells and the interface is called should
Auto size
implementing this interface we don't
have to overwrite any method but it will
automatically resize ourselves to the
value inside of it
so now let's try and see our export
result
we can now see that each column has
adjusted automatically and everything
looks visually appealing
next I would like to show you how you
can customize the width of the columns
manually
for example you may want to assign
different reads to different cells some
may need more space While others can
adjust in lesser space for this let's go
to code and the first thing I'm going to
do is remove should Auto size
and now we have an interface named with
column width let's Implement that
and this interface has one method which
we need to overwrite so let's copy paste
that here
and it expects us to return an array
so written array now this array will
contain the width defined for each of
the column as a numeric value so you can
adjust it according to your need
so here let's define the width of column
B to be 55 and the column B refers to
the nodes column so now let's see the
difference in our export file
and this is how the file looks like you
may not notice the difference but this
is what we have on our new export and
this is what we had previously so you
can see that the width has been reduced
however we can see one more thing that
the other columns are now not Auto
resizing themselves
so the status column is stating rest
space and the icon is taking more space
we can also use this interface along
with the order size one
so that way we will be only overriding
the bit defined for the cells and the
rest of the cells will be automatically
resized for us let's go into our code
and implement
pseudoro size so now let's give it a
shot in browser and this is the result
so we have the ID column reassigned
and this is the result so we can see our
ID column is taking that space as
required and Status column is also
taking up the space it needs and
everything looks good
that was about the widgets now it's time
we start ourselves and rules if you look
at our export it is hard to
differentiate between the header row and
the other data
so what we are going to do is style our
header row to look a little bit
different from other rows maybe have the
font size increase or maybe the font
weight should be bold so for this we are
going to be implementing a new interface
name with style and by the name of it
you can guess it will allow us to style
our sheet so let's Implement that

and now we have the override one method
which is called styles
we also need to include the worksheet so
worksheet slash worksheet this method
takes in a parameter of sheet so the
reason for having a parameter here is
because we have two ways of defining the
Styles the first one is a simple one
like we have been using and returning an
array of styles while the other one is a
bit PHP style way PHP syntax play and I
will show you both in a minute we may
also need to access some properties of
the current Shield so we can use this
parameter to access that first let's go
with the array syntax and make our
header row bold since our sheet rows are
based on number and cells are
represented by alphabet I will be
studying the first row and I will make
it to half fold as both with the Styles
added let's take a look at our export
now and here we can see that our first
row is down bold now we can achieve the
same styling using the second approach
and for that let's comment the array
part and I will be using this sheet
parameter to style our headed row so
what I'm doing is I'm using the current
sheet I'm getting the style of the first
row I'm getting the font properly on it
and setting the ball as true so now
let's hit the browser again and see our
result and we can still see that our
header row is bold
now that we are talking about Styles and
in case we want to style entire sheet
that includes all the cells and rows we
can Define generic styles with this and
the interface named with default Styles
though these default Styles interface is
only available after the 3.4.1 version
of lateral XL and it won't work for the
previous version
and this interface has one method which
we need to overwrite and it returns an
array or nothing and the reason to and
the reason for void here is because we
have the styling parameter and we could
be installing the sheet using this
parameter and not returning anything so
let's override this method in our export
file so now I have defined the method
and inside what I've done is I've kept
the phone as calibri which is by default
calibri and I have increased the size
from 11 to 12. I've also changed the
alignment of the values so each cell is
now going to have the value at the
center of it both horizontally and
vertically like I have mentioned before
the default Styles only work if you have
installed version
3.4.1 or newer version
and since we have the version 3.1 we
won't be able to export the report with
default size also for styling we are
using different syntax than the regular
CSS and I will leave a link in the
description or at the top of the video
where you can find all the details and
styles you can use here
so the last thing I want to talk about
is the text wrapping so if we go to our
export we can look at our B cell and we
can see that the text is not splitting
into the next line
but if we increase the weight of the
column then we can see the entire text
but that is not what we would want
normally if I click on wrap text you can
see that the text is splitting in the
next line so how can we achieve this so
inside the code inside our Styles I'm
going to add a new line what I'm
basically doing here is I'm grabbing the
entire column of B and I'm just setting
the wrap text to true the method get
highest row is going to return me the
highest row number so it is going to be
the last row number which is 93 or 94
actually and let's try it out in the
browser and see the result and now we
can see that our text is getting wrapped
and we can see the entire text splitting
that is all about this video and
probably for the series there might be
one or two more videos but until now
with what we have learned we can now
create an Excel file with multiple
sheets inside and customize the columns
according to our name
thank you for watching and I will see
you in the next video