while exporting we can leverage a few
events in order to add custom Behavior
to the export there are two ways to use
these events one way is to implement the
with events interface and then Define a
method named register events that will
return an array of event and inside this
array the key will be fully qualified
name or fqn basically the name of the
event and the value is a callable event
listener and this listener can either be
a cloer or an invocable class instance
all the events that are available can be
seen on your screen right now and let's
discuss a little bit about them the
before export event gets fired before
the export has started like before
everything else before writing event is
fired when the export is completed and
is about to be stored on a disk or
downloaded by the user the before sheet
even is called when a sheet has been
created but not yet anything is written
on it the last event is after sheet and
you will be mostly working inside this
because because you can do different
stuff like styling your sheets or making
adjustments to your sheets this event is
fire at the last in the sheet creation
process one problem here is that we
cannot use a clure for cued export
because PHP cannot serialize the closure
and it is mentioned in the documentation
of LEL Excel so that brings us to the
second approach which is by using a
trade call register even listeners along
with the with event interface so for
this we are going to implement our with
event interface but now we will also be
using a trade on our export class now we
can Define each even method as a
separate static method on our export
class just in case if we have multiple
exports file and we want to define a
generic listener for all of them we can
Define it inside the app service
provider file and inside the register
matter of it you might be wondering what
these events are for actually we can do
quite a lot of things with these events
like adding properties to our report
setting the Creator name or something or
description setting the orientation or
we can also style our sheets coming to
the last part of our video which is
adding RTL or right to left sheet it is
quite easy to achieve that inside the
after sheet method all we need to do is
grab our sheet and set the Ral to true
and the way we do that is by using the
event parameter which is we are
receiving and calling the sheet on it
and then the get delegate method and
then on that we will just set the RDL to
true the get delegate method will
returns and underlying PHP spreadsheet
class and this is how we can achieve the
RDL support in our exports if you find
the video helpful please give a thumbs
up and subscribe to the channel for more
videos