welcome back to the part two of imports
in the last video I showed you some
basing things you can do with your
Imports today I want to show you more
but in case you haven't watched the
previous one I would say have a look at
that one first and then come back to
this video I will add the link in the
description okay so I did show you 2xo
file at the start of the previous video
and we have worked with the first file
up till now first let's take a look at
the other file again and let's talk
about how we are going to import it also
I have added another column for the
items so it will represent the order
item and here you can see that I have
two sheets inside this Excel file each
for a user and inside each sheet we have
orders for that specific user okay so
now how can we import this type of file
so we can see that we have the header
row as well and we have multiple sheets
for this first we need to implement with
multiple sheets concern and and then all
we need to do is Define a sheets method
so for this I'm going to first create a
new import file called user order
Imports and then we will add the sheets
concern and the method inside that file
so I'm going to just run the command
phbm make import to create an Excel file
for our Imports and I'm going to name it
user orders import now inside our code
we need to go to this file and instead
of collection I'm just going to
implement with multiple
sheets and here I'm going to define a
method called sheets now inside this
method we will just written an array
which will contain instances of our
sheets inside the Excel file right now
we don't have the Excel file for
representing a sheet so we need to
create that one now the basic idea is if
we have different formats in each of the
sheet then we would be creating multiple
sheet Imports or multiple Excel files
for each of the format but in our case
both the sheets have the same format of
data so we just need to create only one
file so let's create that one I will go
back to my terminal and run the same
command and this time I'm going to name
my file as aors import so here inside
the array I'm going to return orders
import and that's all so now inside our
orders import file the first thing I'm
going to change is to change the two
collection to two model actually because
we will be cre creting an order instance
Here and Now inside the first thing we
need to do is to get the sheet name
because that represents our users inside
the database and we will add this record
against those specific users so in order
to get the sheet name we will be
registering a before sheet even and then
get the sheet name so now we are going
to check if there is any user for this
name and then add the ERS data otherwise
we are going to skip the data and move
to the next sheet so let me explain what
I'm doing here first I'm looking for
this specific user the sheet name is
representing a single user so we are
looking for that user data inside our
data P if there is no user for such name
then we are going to skip this row next
what I'm doing here is I'm just creating
a new order and associating the user
with it in the last what I'm doing here
is I'm just adding the order items for
each of the order so now we have
everything in place let's go to our
controller and instead of this I'm just
going to comment this one out and add
this line here the name of the file is
users import 2 and instead of user
import I'm going to
be using orders import file now the last
thing we need to do is go into our
orders import and use the trade
importables so we have everything in
place now let's go to the browser and
try it
out so we didn't get any error now now
we will go to our database and see the
result so we can see that there are data
that have been inserted into our
database I did run this import earlier
so that's why I have more data than we
have in the Excel file we can also go to
our order items and see that each of the
order items has been added as well now
that was about multiple sheets and how
to import them but now I want to talk
about a problem that you may face while
importing and that is about the
insertion cues that will be executed so
from what we have right now if we are
importing this way we are executing a
cury for each of the row now you can
imagine if we have a bigger data in here
let's say even 20,000 then we are
executing 20,000 cues and as a result we
may face bottleneck so what we can do to
prevent that is by inserting the data as
a badge and we can easily do that by
implementing a concern called with batch
inserts we will have to define the math
batch size as well that will return the
size of of the batch and this way we are
reducing a lot of queries execution so
for this we need to go into our orders
import where we
are implementing two model concern and
have the model method we just need to
add another concern here with batch
inserts and we also need to define the
meod batch size which is going to be an
integer and we can specify the number of
rows that needs to be inserted at a time
so let's say we can say 5,000 or even 50
for now the only thing that you should
be aware of is that this concern only
works if you're implementing the two
model as well so if we are not using the
two model then this won't work now that
we are talking about optimizations
another problem we can face with the
large import file is the memory usage we
can Implement a concern for that as well
with chunk reading and Implement a
method named chunk size so what we need
to do is add with junk reading and we
need to define the M chunk size so we
can Define the size of this chunk and we
can use this chunk size along with the
bad size in order to import efficiently
one last small thing I want to talk
about is the progress bar so let's say
instead of the route we are importing wi
the command line and we want to show the
progress of the import on the terminal
LEL XEL provide us another concern
called withd progress bar and with this
implemented inside the command we just
need to use the with method and it will
show the progress in the terminal this
also brings us to the end of the video
and this larel series as well I hope it
was helpful and you learn at least
something from here in case you find it
helpful please like the video and share
with the others so they can also get
benefit from this thank you for watching
and I will see you in the next one