so we had our first explorer and you can
see it's pretty easy right now we are
exporting using collection while
retrieving the data from database but in
some cases we won't be exporting the
exact data that we have in the DB so
what we can do is to create the data for
the export inside our controller and
then pass it to our Excel file so for
that let's create a controller name
exports controller and inside I'm going
to Define only one method called export
now inside this method let's retrieve
the data from the DB and pass it along
to the Excel file as a Constructor
parameters and now we can store this
data as a property of this class

so we have already seen the collection
Explorer we can also create an export
file from an array for that we only need
to implement another interface that is
provided by lateral Excel called from
array
and now instead of collection method we
need to add a method name array which
will return an array of data
and now we can simply export like
previously we were doing with the
collection
another way to export is write the query
inside the export file for this we will
simply Implement another interface from
query and as you might have guessed it
it will allow us to write the query
inside the Excel file this interface
requires only one method to be defined
named query for this let's now not use
the users table instead let's write a
query now to retrieve orders that has an
amount of over 50. I know this is a user
export class and for others we should
have a newer export class but for now I
just want to give you an example on how
you can export using this interface now
let's go to the browser and hit our
endpoint
we can see our export file has orders
with an amount of Above 50. This Way of
exporting has one benefit that it will
execute the query in chunks so if you
want to export a large amount of data
this is also a good option just make
sure you don't return the result of the
query by using get or pagination
because that way the chunks won't work
one last way to export is by using blade
files in this way you can create a blade
file with HTML table element and use it
to create an export for this we have a
from view interface and a matter name
view I've also created a blade file
named order inside the resources view
folder and inside I have defined a
simple HTML table structure with header
and three columns
let's pass the data to this view file
and for the data I have changed it
inside the controller to retrieve all
the orders instead of the users
so now let's go to the browser and
download the Excel file and we can see
the data is structured in the way we
have defined the table in our blade file
also you can notice one thing that now
we have the headings row at the top
which were missing previously now let's
see how we can have headings with
exports generated without the blade View
