before going towards having multiple
sheets and customization of each cell I
would like to show you a very simple
issue you might face when using the
route EXO for the first time it may not
be a issue but if you are working with
integers and you want numbers this might
be an issue so for this I'm going to add
a new column first inside the headings
function I'm going to add a new heading
failed others count and inside the map
method I'm going to append a new value
so order
where the status is failed
and I only want the orders that are
failed for this specific user so where
user ID is equal to the current row ID

and I'm gonna get the count of this
all right now let's go to the browser
hit reload so our file has been
generated now let's take a look at our
file
inside our export file we have a column
for the field owners count and we can
see the count of the orders that have
failed but right at the top the second
row we have an empty cell which wasn't
supposed to be an empty cell but zero
because there are no failed order for
this user so by default what happens is
Laurel Excel Compares only the value of
the cells or columns and not the type of
the value so here 0 is equal to empty
string and in order to verify this you
can simply go to your browser open the
inspect and type in 0 equals equals
empty string and you can see the result
is two but if you compare both the value
and the type then it is false so in
order to overcome this lateral Excel
provides us an interface called with
string null comparison so let's
Implement that interface
at the top I'm gonna write with strict
null comparison
and now let's hit reload and now inside
we can see our zero is back so it's not
showing the empty string that is just
one simple customization of the columns
but we will see many more of these after
the multiple sheets Explorer so now
let's export an Excel file with multiple
sheets